Our next ABC deep or defend is our meatiest and probably most eagerly anticipated.
So let's dive right on in and learn how to actually physically defend yourself.
Now, remember to keep in mind the boundaries we learned in the last module, including the legal limitations
and consequences.
I cannot stress enough how these moves you're about to learn should only be used as a last resort and
only as far as is necessary for you to safely escape to safety.
But if you absolutely cannot escape without using force, then let's teach you how to fight back.
Remember egress?
Well, that same acronym Initialism can help you remember how and where to strike eg, as also stands
for eyes or ears, throat, groin and shins or stomach.
These are the most sensitive and effective spots to strike when you need to damage your assailant enough
to say it with me.
Escape to safety You may also recall another handy acronym used in the movie Miss Congeniality.
Same as I MGM stomach, instep, nose and groin.
That's also a useful one to remember, and the same points are just as effective places to strike.
It just depends on what you're more comfortable with and what the situation calls for.
It might be more useful for a frontal or side attack, whereas CNG could be handy if you're being attacked
from behind, though either can be helpful for any situation as long as you've got the moves down and
committed to muscle memory.
Now, before we get into the details of these moves and their applications, there are a few points
I want to make clear about the use of force to defend yourself.
These are super important, so please do pay attention.
Seven.
Number one If the threat feels real and imminent and you cannot escape, you have every right to defend
yourself as far as is necessary.
Don't forget this.
No, to assume every threat and assailant you face is armed and willing to kill you with that weapon
and has friends who may jump in at any time, even if you don't currently see any weapon or other assailants.
You always want to be prepared for the worst case scenario.
Whether or not it actually occurs and the price you pay for not being prepared for either of these scenarios
could be your life.
Number three, remember that loud verbal yell.
Repeat it with every strike as you hit.
It will help you keep setting boundaries, calling for help and continue breathing and managing your
adrenaline, as well as put a little oomph into every hit.
Number four, true power doesn't come from strength, but from leverage, rotation and speed.
Of course, sheer strength helps, especially fueled by adrenaline, but it's useless without these
three.
So make sure you're using this power trio in every move as well.
Number five, leverage in particular, is best achieved by constantly driving forward, taking ground
and keeping your assailant off balance.
I realize this sounds counterintuitive and perhaps a bit intimidating, but it's actually very smart.
If you keep him off balance, he can't get in any decent hits or grabs and he can't overpower you.
Number six, you lose significant leverage, rotation and speed if you're taken to the ground.
So you must prevent this at all costs.
This is your worst case scenario.
Do not let this fight go to the ground.
Number seven, if you are taken to the ground and even if you're not, always keep your chin tucked,
elbows up and your feet between you and your assailant.
Number eight.
And a personal favorite of mine, if it's near your mouth.
Bite it nuff said number nine.
It never happens like you imagine it will leave your assumptions of expectations at the door.
They will only get you in trouble.
And number 10, I will say this over and over again.
Escape, escape, escape as soon as safely possible at your earliest possible convenience, especially
if a weapon is involved.
This should always be your first priority.
It is far easier to escape an assailant than to conquer one.
If you can remember these 10 rules, you will already have a huge leg up on the vast majority of people
out there.
So commit these to memory and to heart.
Keep them in mind as we go through each move and scenario in this module and make sure you're utilizing
them in your own drills and practices, both at home and out in the real world.
Now let's get into the moves and the scenarios in which you use them.
We're going to focus on five scenarios one assaults from the front, two assaults from the rear, three
extreme close range for ground assaults and five weapon attacks.
Those are all the scenarios you need to think about.
It doesn't need to be more complicated than that.
There will always be what ifs and nuances.
But if you stick to the basic principles, you will be able to handle any situation.
I'm going to show you a basic set of moves that you can apply to each of these scenarios in different
combinations, but everything I show you can be used in all of these scenarios.
I'm not going to make you memorize different moves for every scenario.
I would be a god awful amount of stuff to learn.
There are far too many variations to account for.
Remember, these moves are only as effective as you're able to use them instinctively in the split second.
It matters.
So your best chance of survival is learning and committing to memory as few moves as possible.
My system is simple, but it's still a lot to learn.
So be patient with yourself.
Practice as much as possible and keep in mind that not everything you learn here is going to work for
you.
That's OK.
This is a system with something for everybody.
Not everything for somebody.
Just concentrate on the moves that work for you, practice and memorize those.
Don't fall into the trap of you have to master everything.
That's a load of crap.
Even the best fighters have just a handful of go to moves.
And so can you.
Now, without further ado, here are the ten basic moves you are going to learn in this module.
Number one, the eye gouge or poke number two the ear twist.
Number three the palm strike number four.
The Blade or X hand.
Number five the elbow strike number six.
The knee strike number seven.
The groin kick number eight.
The shin or knee kick.
Number nine.
The foot stone number 10.
The hip thrust in general, you want to strike with muscly parts of your body, like your palms, forearms,
thighs and soles of your feet onto bigger bony parts of your assailant's body that can't build muscle
like their nose, chin, shins and knees.
Now that you've got an overview of what this module entails, let's get down to the nitty gritty of
how to kick some assailant --.
So grab your practice pads, your clothes, your weapons and your buddy if you've got one.
And let's move on to the next videos where we'll take each of these 10 moves.
Break them down one by one and show you how each can be used in all of our scenarios to save your life.